Testing, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven,
eight, testing, testing, ABC. Testing number
two, testing number two, testing number two,
stop.
Testing on Wednesday, Wednesday, Wednesday,
testing, testing. Yes, this is Kay Goldman, class
of 68.
All right, Kay, to introduce yourself to anyone
that would hear the tape or read transcription,
give us a brief biographical summary. Born,
growing up, where'd you go to high school, what did
mom and dad do? All right. Tell us about yourself,
too, that got to A&M. I was born in Shreveport,
Louisiana. For the first seven years of my life, I
lived north of Shreveport in a rural area. At
seven, I moved to Shreveport and lived there until
I was 18. My father was in the oil business, did all
kinds of things. He was a pumper, a driller. He was
an independent oilman later on. And I went to Bird
High School in Shreveport, Louisiana, which was a
very large high school. There were 800 in my
graduating class. In the summer after my
graduation, I married an Aggie who was, at that
time, in his entering his last year in vet school.
And I entered A&M as the wife of a student. And
that's the fall of? Of 1964. And my parents let me
get married because they had changed the rules so
that I could go to school. As long as I could go to
college and we could get married, so that was it.
Your husband, was he a Shreveport area boy? Yes, he
was. Okay. And when you all came over here, what did
you bring with you? A carload of clothes and some
pots and pans and we moved into Hensel apartment,
T1C Hensel. apartment. We came a week before
school started because we had gotten married on
the 30th of August and school at that time didn't
start as early as it does now and I needed to take I
believe some placement tests here. I had already
taken the SAT and was admitted. I'm not even sure
whether they even looked at my SAT scores or not.
But I had taken the SAT as a junior and could have
gotten into the University of Texas, so I know I
could have gotten in on my academics. But that was
what we came over pretty much without very much. My
husband was here being paid for by the Louisiana as
a vet student. Did you bring furniture? Did you
rent it? Well, Hensel was furnished. I didn't know
that. Yes, Hensel was furnished. And the one thing
that I realized after we got here was there were no
curtains and there were blinds, but if you pulled
the blinds open, then you didn't have any window
coverings, so my mom made window coverings. We had
a few pieces, but not, mostly it was furnished, so
we didn't bring furniture. And this was, describe
what it physically, the dimensions of the
apartment.
It was brown. Everything in it was brown. It had a
brown floor. The living dining area was probably
about 22 feet in length and maybe 12 feet in width.
The kitchen, I think, probably I could have
touched every single wall by stretching out my
arms. And the bedroom area was a nice size bedroom
area and the bathroom area. I couldn't guess how
large it was. Some couples even had washers and
dryers in their... One bedroom? One bedroom
apartment, yes. We had a lot of, it was in 64, and we
had a lot of returning servicemen who were living
over there who actually, they lived in the front
half of the apartment and they had children in the
bedroom. It wasn't a bad place to live. The
kitchen, for a place that has both engineering and
architecture, the The kitchen was just terrible,
though. There was no ventilation. And I've talked
to other people, and if you cooked or fried, you had
to open the doors and the windows because there was
no ventilation in the kitchen at all. And no air
conditioning, of course. No, but we did have an air
conditioning unit. You could add your own air
conditioning. A window unit? A window unit. And
the apartment, if I remember correctly, the rent
was $65 a month. And that included your utilities.
But if you had a window unit, then you paid
additional electric bill. And I don't remember
exactly what the electric bill ran. Our air
conditioning unit would usually cool the front
room and maybe some of the bedroom. When it was very
hot, we would sleep in the living room. Now, in
terms of enrolling and so forth, you made all of the
arrangements to be admitted in advance. Yes, I
did. Did you come over here to visit during any of
those? Not specifically for enrollment
purposes. My former husband made all those
arrangements with the university himself and I
had my transcripts and everything sent from my
high school. The one thing that was rather
unusual, and I assume because they hadn't been
used to dealing with women who were in the process
of getting married, they asked my husband if the
transcripts could be sent under my married name.
And of course the high school is going, but you're
not married yet. We're going to send them under
your maiden name. And so he had to explain to
whoever was going to receive them that they were
going to come under a different name and that they
would have to match them up. Okay, when you got over
here, describe registration and so forth. Well,
the first thing I had to do was take a placement test
and then I was assigned a professor
and at a certain time and we went to, I went to his
office and along with probably eight or ten other
freshman guys, and we sat outside the hall and of
course this room wasn't air conditioned and the
windows were open and the doors were open and I
believe the gentleman was an engineering
professor and I could hear the preceding students
going in and he would talk to them about what their
major was And if they mentioned anything about
engineering or mathematics, he was always, you
know, why don't you take German and I think you need
to take this class and these are the other classes
that you need to take. And so I could hear him
proceed with the ones that were ahead of me. When I
got into his office, he just kind of looked up and
then he motioned for me to sit down and he said, what
do you want to register for? And when I told him what
the classes I wanted to register for, and it did not
include German, it did include a math, and
basically it was math, English, and history. And
he said, fine. And that was it. He didn't make any
comments at all about what I should take, what I
shouldn't take. I do know that if I had asked to take
a P.E. class, there was the only thing that we could
take was bowling. And I am not even sure that they
were set up for us to sign up for bowling until the
next semester. But we could not, there were no P.E.
classes at all for the women. Right. In those
sessions, were you the only female? Yes, I was.
There were no, I never saw, generally, because I
was a freshman, I didn't see a lot of other females
either. in counseling or in classes. As far as you
were aware, was this the first fall women were? I
was under the impression that it was the first fall
that they had announced that. I think that's
right. That the, although I did look at a book
recently that said that there were women that came
in 93, I mean in 63, but I was under the impression
that this was the first fall where there was an
official acceptance policy and we had to prove, I
had to bring my marriage license, and we had to
prove that I was married to a student, to a
registered student before I could enroll. Did you
overhear as you walked down the hallway or
anything those first two or three days going
through these sessions, did you hear any
comments, any I never heard any kind of comments
directed either specifically at me or indirectly
at me, either in the first few days or later on. Not
only did I not have any comments, but I was
generally well received and I had a couple of times
when some of the other Aggies, the male Aggies, did
some very good deeds to help me. Now, in those first
few days, what did you, how did you dress? What did
you wear? I
was pretty formal in my dress, primarily because I
tended to be more formal. Generally I wore, I
always wore a dress or skirt and blouse. And a lot of
times I did wear flats, but there were a lot of times
where I also wore stockings to class. So I was more
dressed up than what you would normally expect a
student to wear. But I did wear stockings often.
All right, then as classes began, do you remember
you took full load? No, I only took nine hours. Nine
hours, all right. And share what you remember
about that first semester. It was very
interesting because not only was I in experiment,
but A&M was experimenting and taking classes,
large sections of classes and having lectures in
math and in English. that were geared for 100 or 120
students and then dividing those students up into
discussion sessions one day or one day a week or
perhaps two, I can't remember, but I know both my
math and my English class was set up that way. So
that was an experiment. So I was dealing, I was an
experiment and I was dealing with classes that
hadn't been, you know, they hadn't been, no, The
professors were usually pretty friendly. I do
know that I took a history class in Nagel and I would
get there early so that often I could hear the
classes ahead of me because we could hear them
through the transoms even if they had the door
closed. Often, as I'm sure the professors might
have done in an all-male school, they had
off-color stories that they shared with the
students and so I was outside the door one early in
the class in the session and I had heard the story. I
had heard him tell the story at an appropriate
time, the historian, and then I went in and I was the
only female in the class and when he presented his
lecture, he presented the same lecture again. But
when he got to that point where he was going to tell
this story, he looked directly at me, he paused, he
waited a few minutes, and then went on without
telling the story, without telling the story. But
the students, the fellow students were friendly
in the classes. I wasn't asked to study groups or
anything like that. But they spoke to me and talked
to me and chatted just like you would with a student
any other time before class or after class or I
didn't understand this or what did you get out of
that. How many other young coeds did you see? That
first semester there were no other coeds in any of
my classes. You would see a couple of, you would see
a few women around the campus, but generally it was
hard to tell whether these were truly students or
whether they were young, staff members or
secretaries or things like that if you just saw
them walking around. But I, in that first
semester, had no other females in my class. And
academically, how did things go?
Well, English gave me some problems, math I made a
very good grade in. I believe at that time the A&M
grading system was a little bit different also.
And I made a very good grade in both math and
history, but English I was having problems with.
Any of those teachers now, in retrospect, were any
of those first instructors important? The math
professor I had, and I took this class, he lectured
in the Animal Industries building in the large
lecture room, and I sat on the front row to the
right, and I was, we were engaged. the two of us
often and I ask a lot of questions and would go to his
office occasionally and I believe he was the head
of the department of the math department at that
time and he commented about my questions and he was
a help later on when I the next during the next
semester I don't remember anybody's name
particularly but I did I did do well in the in the
history class also so As you walked down the
sidewalk, did the Aggies greet you
appropriately? Howdy, good morning, that sort of
thing? Generally, they did. Yes, they did. And
they were, it was always friendly. It was always
howdy or, yes, howdy. It's generally the way I got
credit. Yeah. Your husband was in vet school. Yes,
he was. So, did you walk from Hensel over to the
campus? No, I, we had a car and I would drop him off
and then I would generally park in the area where
that Reed, the Reed Annex, the G. Raleigh-White is
now. And so, I would park in that area and then go to
class and then leave class. My classes were
dispersed and were all through the morning and I
would go pick him up for lunch because at that time,
the university didn't hold classes during the
lunch hour. So then I would get him and we would have
lunch together and then I would take him to school.
Where'd you eat lunch? Generally at home, I mean in
the Hensel apartments. It was, it didn't take very
long unless there was a train. And did you have that
lunch fixed in advance or did you A lot of times what
we did was we had leftovers, and I would cook
something that was big enough so that we could have
leftovers. We had sandwiches sometimes. The
first week before school started, I had never
cooked before. I came from a family that had a maid,
and my husband, we're regressing here, but my
husband decided that we should go watch the
football team practice. and I put dinner in the
oven and we went over and the football practice was
open and we could watch them in the football
stadium. I lost track of time and poked him in the
ribs and said, We have to go now. By the time we got
back to our apartment, our dinner was duly burnt
up. The roast was ruined. But generally, I fixed a
chicken or a roast or something so we could have a
quick lunch. Do you have any recollection as to how
much your fees were then? By what did it cost? I
don't remember at all how much the fees were. I knew
that we paid $65 for an apartment and that we
figured that we could probably eat on maybe $15 to
$20 a week for food. My husband's uniforms that he
wore at the vet school, we allowed something like
$15 a month for those to be laundered. and our gas
bill our gasoline bill not our gas bill our
gasoline bill ran about 10 or 12 dollars a month
describe the typical class day routine what time
did you all get up and what did you do when and when
did you go to bed we were usually up by 6 or 6 30 in the
morning i cooked breakfast i cooked three meals a
day or fixed something three for three meals a day
and then we would leave the apartment of around 740
or 745 and I would take him to whichever building in
the vet school that he was needed to be in and then
drive right back over and park but usually that
semester I had a nine o'clock class I did not have an
eight o'clock class then I went to class I guess
nine ten and eleven or nine ten and anyway
somewhere around noon I finished and I would drop
back over to the vet school, pick him up, and we
would go home and have lunch. If I needed to do
something, then I would take him back to the vet
school and drop him off, and then I would go grocery
shopping or do whatever else I needed to do and pick
him up at 5 o'clock when he finished. There were
some times when he was doing rotations that he
didn't finish at 5 o'clock, but generally I would
pick him up at 5 o'clock, we would go back to the
apartment, and I would serve dinner, usually
around 6 o'clock. We both would then study.
Sometimes he went back to the vet school. That was
not often, but sometimes he needed to do that.
Probably around 10.30 we were finished for the day
and we were in bed around 10.30 or 11. There were
Saturday classes then in those days. I didn't have
any. You didn't? No, no. He worked on Saturday
because the vet school had responsibilities that
were on Saturday. What did you all do for
diversions? Well, during the fall semester we
went to almost every single football game. And we
went to all the away games except one, and I believe
that was the Texas Tech game. I don't remember. It
might not have been. Texas Tech might have played
here. We drove to Baton Rouge with three of his
friends in our car. And we got to Baton Rouge early
in the afternoon. And he and his friends were
staying in the ZBT fraternity house. and I was
staying in the dorms with a friend of mine. We
deposited our things, then we went and found
something to eat and went to the football game.
Everybody was,
you know, in high spirits. When we got there, by the
time the football game was over and we lost to LSU,
uh... his buddies were very in a very sour mood we
all met back at the ZBT house and about twelve
thirty he came to me and said the guys want to leave
because we weren't going to leave until sunday
morning and uh... so i had to go find my friend who
had the key to her dorm room so that i could get my
clothes back and my luggage which wasn't easy i
just i had to find her Sometime later, probably
around 1 or 1.30, we all piled back in the car and
drove back towards College Station. We took turns
driving. My turn came sometime around 4 o'clock in
the morning. Everybody else in the car was asleep.
So much for chivalry, I guess. I was driving the
early morning shift. And it was foggy, but
somehow. I was afraid I'd gotten turned around,
but we got back home. And we dropped his friends
off. And I was very unhappy about the whole evening
and about being tired. So instead of going back to
the apartment and eating breakfast, we went to
Coach's. We had breakfast at Coach's and then went
back to the apartment. What was your, at your first
Aggie football game, what was your impression?
Well, I had actually been to several football
games before that year. In fact, while my husband,
my former husband and I were dating, he had come
home and the Shreveport Hometown Club used to take
a train from the station in Shreveport down to LSU
And we rode, and you would get on the train Friday
evening and ride all night down to LSU. And we went
to that game. So I had actually been to LSU before. I
had met him in Dallas for several games. So I'd been
at football games before. stood on the, you know,
watched the parade in downtown Dallas or Fort
Worth. And you knew about yell practices and
things like that. Yes, yes, I knew about all that.
Were there any things about that first fall at A&M
that surprised you? Anything that surprised me? I
guess everything was so new that I was just
accepting everything that went, you know, with
being here. How long before you all made some
friends over in, with other couples over in the
student housing area? We made a few friends right
away and, but actually a lot of our friends were his
either uh couples that he knew from vet school
several there were a couple of those and um and
couples that we met because we were both jewish and
we met them at the hill el foundation in fact i in
fact i i know one couple from vet school who's here
now and that's um Bubba Watek and his wife. We lived
in Hensel together. Oh, I know Bubba. Marvelous
person. Yes. Is he the same vintage? Yes. Oh, I
didn't know that. Yes. The reason I said, oh, I
would like you to share any and all that you can
about the Jewish part of the student body here. We
don't know much about that. Right. At that time,
the students were generally excused on Wednesday
night for religious services. And I have no idea
whether they were forced to leave the dorms or they
were encouraged to leave the dorms or exactly, but
most of the students left the dorms on Wednesday
night and the Jewish students would go to the
Hillel on Wednesday night. We didn't have
services, but we would get together. We would do
things like play bridge and that kind of, or just
sit over there and talk. And the. And this would be
what, a couple of dozen? Generally about 12 or
maybe more. It depended on when in the semester it
was, what was going on, other times. The other
things that happened was on Friday night when the
services were held, almost all the Jewish
students would come to services Sometimes we
would even have meals over there on Friday nights
because all the students were living on campus. If
somebody cooked a meal off campus, they were
really excited about getting to eat something
other than from Sabisa or Duncan or. And where the,
in terms of hometowns, where were most of these
youngsters from? Almost all of them were from
Texas. Were they urban or small town? Yes, the ones
that were here then I would say were primarily
urban, Dallas, Houston, San Antonio, although
there were others from Baytown or from some of the
smaller towns. We didn't have that many students
from tiny towns, although that I do know that
sometime during that time there were two boys from
Alice and their last name was Shinus. Right now
their first names escape me, but I do know them and I
know their mother as a matter of fact. But they came
from Alice and so I'm sure Alice qualifies as a tiny
town. And who conducted the services in those
days? There was no rabbi here and
Frank Kahn and Saul Klein generally conducted the
services. with the aid of whoever else was here
that was knowledgeable enough to help conduct the
services. But they were usually the leaders and
then the students would also participate. But
they were the ones, the two that did lead the
services every Friday night and on the holidays.
Do you remember anything
relative to your background? Do you remember
anything happening that was shocking or
inappropriate or? No, nothing ever happened. The
religion hardly ever came up in class or on the
campus. It was a time when people believed that
religion was a private issue and I don't believe
that it was We didn't have proselytizing on the
campus and I really believe that people, unless
you were a very close friend of someone, you didn't
bring up that subject. It's not that religion
didn't matter, it was just considered a personal
issue and not an issue to be talked about. I do know
one time in a class for some, I think it was a world
history class, the professor asked, you know a
show of hands of how many people it could have been
American history but I don't remember but how many
people were various religions and then he he said
well what's left and there were two of us that
raised our hand and both of us happened to be Jewish
so that was a kind of unusual thing but but that's
the only thing because he hadn't called out he
hadn't asked for Jewish hands but he just assumed
that there probably weren't any Jews in the class
And, but never, I was never even, nobody ever asked
anything about that or said anything. So you're
saying no incidents or? No incidents. As far as I
can remember or would be aware of, there was never
anything that happened. Okay, on you and your
husband and friends, if y'all wanted to have a good
time, what'd you do? Well because we were all
students we were all on limited budgets and we
usually entertained in our own homes and we did not
generally invite each other over for a meal
because that was probably a budget breaker but
often we would have people over at 8.30 or 8 o'clock
and we would serve dessert and coffee and we would
sit and we sometimes played games but generally
would just sit around and talk. If these were
couples from the vet school, generally it was
about school or the, you know, the vet school
issues. And, but if there were other couples, it
was just a variety of different subjects. And, but
we very, we didn't entertain or we didn't have, we
spent our discretionary money I think going to the
football games rather than doing anything else
like having a good time out other than our homes.
Did you meet Dean Al Price? No, I didn't meet any of
the— The Ratonier faculty? Right, right. Oh, wait
a minute, let's see, Price. No, I didn't know him. I
probably did, but I don't know him. I probably met
him. And
in that fall, as far as you know, did everybody
attend class pretty regularly? Yes. I think we
were all so afraid that it would affect our grades,
we were all, you know, we didn't skip class and
things like that. And did you sometimes go to the
MSC for a cup of coffee or a soft drink? Right. We did
that occasionally. One of the other things that we
did was the MSC had rooms in the, not in the
basement, I think they're in the basement now, but
they had pianos in the downstairs under the rooms
that they rented. And my husband played the piano
and we would go over there sometimes on Sunday
evenings or sometimes and he would He would play
and I would just sit there.